android_webview/docs/quick-start.md, before:

# WebView quick start

[TOC]

*** promo
Googlers may wish to consult http://go/clank-webview for Google-specific
developer guides.
***

## Overview

This is not a thorough guide for how to build WebView, but is the **fastest**
way to get a local build of WebView up and running.

### Building for preview Android releases

Googlers should see internal instructions. External contributors should switch
to a public (and finalized) Android release (there's no workaround).

## System requirements, tools, etc.

See general Android instructions for:

* [System
  requirements](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#System-requirements)
* [Installing `depot_tools`](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#install)
* [Getting the code](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#get-the-code) **or**
  [converting a Linux
  checkout](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#converting-an-existing-linux-checkout)
* [Installing build
  dependencies](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#install-additional-build-dependencies)
  **and** [running hooks](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#run-the-hooks)

## Device setup

Easiest configuration is to choose a **Google APIs** emulator running **Android
N or higher**. See [Device Setup](./device-setup.md) for instructions.

*** promo
**Android O or higher** comes with troubleshooting tools, so that's highly
recommended.
***

## Setting up the build

Assuming you took the advice from above:

```gn
# Minimal
target_os = "android"
target_cpu = "x86"  # Assuming you chose an x86 emulator

# This package name is whitelisted for debuggable (userdebug) devices, and lets
# devs install a WebView provider without the usual signature checks. This only
# works on N+.
system_webview_package_name = "com.google.android.apps.chrome"
```

## Build WebView

```shell
$ autoninja -C out/Default system_webview_apk
```

## Install WebView and switch provider

```shell
# Install the APK
$ out/Default/bin/system_webview_apk install

# Tell Android platform to load a WebView implementation from this APK
$ out/Default/bin/system_webview_apk set-webview-provider
```

## Start running an app

**That it!** Your APK should be installed and should be providing the WebView
implementation for all apps on the system. If you want to verify this, look at
the steps for [building the System WebView Shell](./webview-shell.md). The
version number in the shell's top bar should match the version number in your
local copy of `//chrome/VERSION`.

## Troubleshooting

If the install command succeeded but something else is wrong, the best way to
troubleshoot the problem is to query the state of the on-device
WebViewUpdateService:

```shell
# If you don't have `adb` in your path, you can source this file to use
# the copy from chromium's Android SDK
$ source build/android/envsetup.sh

# Only available on O+
$ adb shell dumpsys webviewupdate

Current WebView Update Service state
  Fallback logic enabled: true
  Current WebView package (name, version): (com.google.android.apps.chrome, 75.0.3741.0)
  Minimum WebView version code: 303012512
  Number of relros started: 1
  Number of relros finished: 1
  WebView package dirty: false
  Any WebView package installed: true
  Preferred WebView package (name, version): (com.google.android.apps.chrome, 75.0.3741.0)
  WebView packages:
    Valid package com.android.chrome (versionName: 58.0.3029.125, versionCode: 303012512, targetSdkVersion: 26) is  installed/enabled for all users
    Valid package com.google.android.webview (versionName: 58.0.3029.125, versionCode: 303012500, targetSdkVersion: 26) is NOT installed/enabled for all users
    Invalid package com.chrome.beta (versionName: 74.0.3729.23, versionCode: 372902311, targetSdkVersion: 28), reason: No WebView-library manifest flag
    Invalid package com.chrome.dev (versionName: 54.0.2840.98, versionCode: 284009811, targetSdkVersion: 24), reason: SDK version too low
    Invalid package com.chrome.canary (versionName: 75.0.3741.0, versionCode: 374100010, targetSdkVersion: 25), reason: SDK version too low
    Valid package com.google.android.apps.chrome (versionName: 75.0.3741.0, versionCode: 2, targetSdkVersion: 28) is  installed/enabled for all users
```

### Invalid package ... No WebView-library manifest flag

This APK does not contain a WebView implementation. Make sure you're building
`system_webview_apk`.

### Invalid package ... Version code too low

This shouldn't happen for userdebug builds. If it does, add this GN arg:

```gn
# Any number >= "Minimum WebView version code":
android_override_version_code = "987654321"
```

### Invalid package ... SDK version too low

The targetSdkVersion of your APK is too low (it must be >= the platform's API
level). This shouldn't happen for local builds using tip-of-tree chromium on
public OS versions (see [note](#Building-for-preview-Android-releases)).

*** note
**Note:** we only support local development using the latest revision of the
master branch. Checking out release branches introduces a lot of complexity, and
it might not even be possible to build WebView for your device.
***

### Invalid package ... Incorrect signature

This shouldn't happen for userdebug devices, and there's no workaround for user
devices. Make sure you have a userdebug device (you can check with `adb shell
getprop ro.build.type`).

### Valid package ... **is**  installed/enabled for all users

This is the correct state. If this is not the "preferred WebView package" or the
"current WebView package", call `set-webview-implementation` again.

### Valid package ... **is NOT** installed/enabled for all users

This shouldn't happen for `com.google.android.apps.chrome` (the recommended
package name). If you need to use a different package name, you may be able to
workaround this by enabling "redundant packages" (`adb shell cmd webviewupdate
enable-redundant-packages`), reinstalling, and running `set-webview-provider`
again.

Otherwise, please [reach out to the team][1].

### My package isn't in the list

Either your package didn't install (see below) or you chose a package which is
not in the WebView provider whitelist. Double-check the package name in your GN
args. If you're on AOSP (any OS level), choose
`"com.android.webview"`. If you're on L-M, choose
`"com.android.google.webview"`. In either case, you'll likely need to [remove
the preinstalled WebView
APK](/android_webview/tools/remove_preinstalled_webview.py).

### WebView shell doesn't show the correct version

Check the "Current WebView package" in the dumpsys output. You're probably
hitting one of the cases above.

### I couldn't install the APK/... is NOT installed.

This could fail for an even wider variety of reasons than already listed. Please
[reach out to the team][1].

### I couldn't **build** the APK

Try building Chromium. If that doesn't work, please reach out to [the chromium
team](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/chromium-dev) for
general guidance. If `system_webview_apk` is the only troublesome target, please
reach out to the WebView team (see previous section).

## What if I didn't follow these instructions exactly?

**Proceed at your own risk.** Building and installing WebView is, for a variety
of reasons, complex. If you've deviated from **any** of these instructions (and
don't know what you're doing) there's a good chance of making mistakes (some of
which don't have any error messages).

If you can't follow the quick start guide for some reason, please consult our
[public](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-android-webview)
or [internal](http://go/clank-webview) instructions.

[1]: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/android-webview-dev

Commit message:

AW docs: clarify GN args
No change to logic, only docs.

This clarifies in the quick-start that "setting up the build" really
means configuring GN args. This should be obvious to most readers, but
it's probably worth being explicit since this stuff could easily be
misinterpreted as setting shell variables. It also clarifies that the
doc expects folks to use `out/Default` as their out folder.

Bug: 918221
Test: tools/md_browser/md_browser.py
Test: Upload to gerrit > open file > click "gitiles"
Change-Id: I533eb37438135012229089ec53150b1b99619b8c
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1639038
Auto-Submit: Nate Fischer <ntfschr@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Shimi Zhang <ctzsm@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Shimi Zhang <ctzsm@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#665319}

android_webview/docs/quick-start.md, after:

# WebView quick start

[TOC]

*** promo
Googlers may wish to consult http://go/clank-webview for Google-specific
developer guides.
***

## Overview

This is not a thorough guide for how to build WebView, but is the **fastest**
way to get a local build of WebView up and running.

### Building for preview Android releases

Googlers should see internal instructions. External contributors should switch
to a public (and finalized) Android release (there's no workaround).

## System requirements, tools, etc.

See general Android instructions for:

* [System
  requirements](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#System-requirements)
* [Installing `depot_tools`](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#install)
* [Getting the code](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#get-the-code) **or**
  [converting a Linux
  checkout](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#converting-an-existing-linux-checkout)
* [Installing build
  dependencies](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#install-additional-build-dependencies)
  **and** [running hooks](/docs/android_build_instructions.md#run-the-hooks)

## Device setup

Easiest configuration is to choose a **Google APIs** emulator running **Android
N or higher**. See [Device Setup](./device-setup.md) for instructions.

*** promo
**Android O or higher** comes with troubleshooting tools, so that's highly
recommended.
***

## Setting up the build

Assuming you took the advice from above, configure GN args (run `gn args
out/Default`) as follows:

```gn
# Minimal
target_os = "android"
target_cpu = "x86"  # Assuming you chose an x86 emulator

# This package name is whitelisted for debuggable (userdebug) devices, and lets
# devs install a WebView provider without the usual signature checks. This only
# works on N+.
system_webview_package_name = "com.google.android.apps.chrome"
```

## Build WebView

```shell
$ autoninja -C out/Default system_webview_apk
```

## Install WebView and switch provider

```shell
# Install the APK
$ out/Default/bin/system_webview_apk install

# Tell Android platform to load a WebView implementation from this APK
$ out/Default/bin/system_webview_apk set-webview-provider
```

## Start running an app

**That it!** Your APK should be installed and should be providing the WebView
implementation for all apps on the system. If you want to verify this, look at
the steps for [building the System WebView Shell](./webview-shell.md). The
version number in the shell's top bar should match the version number in your
local copy of `//chrome/VERSION`.

## Troubleshooting

If the install command succeeded but something else is wrong, the best way to
troubleshoot the problem is to query the state of the on-device
WebViewUpdateService:

```shell
# If you don't have `adb` in your path, you can source this file to use
# the copy from chromium's Android SDK
$ source build/android/envsetup.sh

# Only available on O+
$ adb shell dumpsys webviewupdate

Current WebView Update Service state
  Fallback logic enabled: true
  Current WebView package (name, version): (com.google.android.apps.chrome, 75.0.3741.0)
  Minimum WebView version code: 303012512
  Number of relros started: 1
  Number of relros finished: 1
  WebView package dirty: false
  Any WebView package installed: true
  Preferred WebView package (name, version): (com.google.android.apps.chrome, 75.0.3741.0)
  WebView packages:
    Valid package com.android.chrome (versionName: 58.0.3029.125, versionCode: 303012512, targetSdkVersion: 26) is  installed/enabled for all users
    Valid package com.google.android.webview (versionName: 58.0.3029.125, versionCode: 303012500, targetSdkVersion: 26) is NOT installed/enabled for all users
    Invalid package com.chrome.beta (versionName: 74.0.3729.23, versionCode: 372902311, targetSdkVersion: 28), reason: No WebView-library manifest flag
    Invalid package com.chrome.dev (versionName: 54.0.2840.98, versionCode: 284009811, targetSdkVersion: 24), reason: SDK version too low
    Invalid package com.chrome.canary (versionName: 75.0.3741.0, versionCode: 374100010, targetSdkVersion: 25), reason: SDK version too low
    Valid package com.google.android.apps.chrome (versionName: 75.0.3741.0, versionCode: 2, targetSdkVersion: 28) is  installed/enabled for all users
```

### Invalid package ... No WebView-library manifest flag

This APK does not contain a WebView implementation. Make sure you're building
`system_webview_apk`.

### Invalid package ... Version code too low

This shouldn't happen for userdebug builds. If it does, add this GN arg:

```gn
# Any number >= "Minimum WebView version code":
android_override_version_code = "987654321"
```

### Invalid package ... SDK version too low

The targetSdkVersion of your APK is too low (it must be >= the platform's API
level). This shouldn't happen for local builds using tip-of-tree chromium on
public OS versions (see [note](#Building-for-preview-Android-releases)).

*** note
**Note:** we only support local development using the latest revision of the
master branch. Checking out release branches introduces a lot of complexity, and
it might not even be possible to build WebView for your device.
***

### Invalid package ... Incorrect signature

This shouldn't happen for userdebug devices, and there's no workaround for user
devices. Make sure you have a userdebug device (you can check with `adb shell
getprop ro.build.type`).

### Valid package ... **is**  installed/enabled for all users

This is the correct state. If this is not the "preferred WebView package" or the
"current WebView package", call `set-webview-implementation` again.

### Valid package ... **is NOT** installed/enabled for all users

This shouldn't happen for `com.google.android.apps.chrome` (the recommended
package name). If you need to use a different package name, you may be able to
workaround this by enabling "redundant packages" (`adb shell cmd webviewupdate
enable-redundant-packages`), reinstalling, and running `set-webview-provider`
again.

Otherwise, please [reach out to the team][1].

### My package isn't in the list

Either your package didn't install (see below) or you chose a package which is
not in the WebView provider whitelist. Double-check the package name in your GN
args. If you're on AOSP (any OS level), choose
`"com.android.webview"`. If you're on L-M, choose
`"com.android.google.webview"`. In either case, you'll likely need to [remove
the preinstalled WebView
APK](/android_webview/tools/remove_preinstalled_webview.py).

### WebView shell doesn't show the correct version

Check the "Current WebView package" in the dumpsys output. You're probably
hitting one of the cases above.

### I couldn't install the APK/... is NOT installed.

This could fail for an even wider variety of reasons than already listed. Please
[reach out to the team][1].

### I couldn't **build** the APK

Try building Chromium. If that doesn't work, please reach out to [the chromium
team](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/chromium-dev) for
general guidance. If `system_webview_apk` is the only troublesome target, please
reach out to the WebView team (see previous section).

## What if I didn't follow these instructions exactly?

**Proceed at your own risk.** Building and installing WebView is, for a variety
of reasons, complex. If you've deviated from **any** of these instructions (and
don't know what you're doing) there's a good chance of making mistakes (some of
which don't have any error messages).

If you can't follow the quick start guide for some reason, please consult our
[public](https://www.chromium.org/developers/how-tos/build-instructions-android-webview)
or [internal](http://go/clank-webview) instructions.

[1]: https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!forum/android-webview-dev
