docs/media/gpu/video_decoder_test_usage.md, before:

# Video Decoder tests

The video decoder tests are a set of tests used to validate various video
decoder implementations. Multiple scenarios are tested, and the resulting
decoded frames are validated against known checksums. These tests run directly
on top of the video decoder implementation, and don't require the full Chrome
browser stack. They can be very useful when adding support for a new codec or
platform, or to make sure code changes don't break existing functionality. They
are build on top of the
[GoogleTest](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/README.md)
framework.

[TOC]

## Running from Tast
The Tast framework provides an easy way to run the video decoder tests from a
ChromeOS chroot. Test data is automatically deployed to the device being tested.

    tast run <host> video.<test_name>

e.g.: `tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelH264`

Check the
[tast video folder](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast-tests/+/refs/heads/master/src/chromiumos/tast/local/bundles/cros/video/)
for a list of all available tests.
See the
[Tast quickstart guide](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast/+/HEAD/docs/quickstart.md)
for more information about the Tast framework.

__Note:__ Tast tests are currently being migrated from the
_video_decode_accelerator_unittest_ to the new _video_decode_accelerator_tests_
binary. Check the [documentation](vdatest_usage.md) for more info about the old
video decode accelerator tests.

## Running manually
To run the video decoder tests manually the _video_decode_accelerator_tests_
target needs to be built and deployed to the device being tested. Running
the video decoder tests can be done by executing:

    ./video_decode_accelerator_tests [<video path>] [<video metadata path>]

e.g.: `./video_decode_accelerator_tests test-25fps.h264`

__Test videos:__ Test videos are present for multiple codecs in the
[_media/test/data_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/)
folder in Chromium's source tree (e.g.
[_test-25fps.vp8_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.vp8)).
If no video is specified _test-25fps.h264_ will be used.

__Video Metadata:__ These videos also have an accompanying metadata _.json_ file
that needs to be deployed alongside the test video. They can also be found in
the _media/test/data_ folder (e.g.
[_test-25fps.h264.json_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.h264.json)).
If no metadata file is specified _\<video path\>.json_ will be used. The video
metadata file contains info about the video such as its codec profile,
dimensions, number of frames and a list of md5 frame checksums to validate
decoded frames. These frame checksums can be generated using ffmpeg, e.g.:
`ffmpeg -i test-25fps.h264 -f framemd5 test-25fps.h264.frames.md5`.

## Command line options
Multiple command line arguments can be given to the command:

     -v                  enable verbose mode, e.g. -v=2.
    --vmodule            enable verbose mode for the specified module,
                         e.g. --vmodule=*media/gpu*=2.
    --disable_validator  disable frame validation, useful on old
                         platforms that don't support import mode.
    --output_frames      write all decoded video frames to the
                         "video_frames" folder.
    --use_vd             use the new VD-based video decoders, instead of
                         the default VDA-based video decoders.
    --gtest_help         display the gtest help and exit.
    --help               display this help and exit.

## Source code
See the video decoder tests [source code](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/gpu/video_decode_accelerator_tests.cc).

Commit message:

media/gpu/test: Allow overwriting output folder in new video decoder tests.
This CL adds the --output_folder parameter to the video_decode_accelerator_tests
and video_decode_accelerator_perf_tests binaries, so the default output folder
for video frames and metrics can be overwritten. This is required to run the
tests from Tast.

TEST=ran new VDA (perf) tests on eve

BUG=953114

Change-Id: Id536f0bc441dbf23ea3ab39434e340ec4503924e
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/1605324
Commit-Queue: David Staessens <dstaessens@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Hirokazu Honda <hiroh@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#665461}

docs/media/gpu/video_decoder_test_usage.md, after:

# Video Decoder tests

The video decoder tests are a set of tests used to validate various video
decoder implementations. Multiple scenarios are tested, and the resulting
decoded frames are validated against known checksums. These tests run directly
on top of the video decoder implementation, and don't require the full Chrome
browser stack. They can be very useful when adding support for a new codec or
platform, or to make sure code changes don't break existing functionality. They
are build on top of the
[GoogleTest](https://github.com/google/googletest/blob/master/README.md)
framework.

[TOC]

## Running from Tast
The Tast framework provides an easy way to run the video decoder tests from a
ChromeOS chroot. Test data is automatically deployed to the device being tested.

    tast run <host> video.<test_name>

e.g.: `tast run $HOST video.DecodeAccelH264`

Check the
[tast video folder](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast-tests/+/refs/heads/master/src/chromiumos/tast/local/bundles/cros/video/)
for a list of all available tests.
See the
[Tast quickstart guide](https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromiumos/platform/tast/+/HEAD/docs/quickstart.md)
for more information about the Tast framework.

__Note:__ Tast tests are currently being migrated from the
_video_decode_accelerator_unittest_ to the new _video_decode_accelerator_tests_
binary. Check the [documentation](vdatest_usage.md) for more info about the old
video decode accelerator tests.

## Running manually
To run the video decoder tests manually the _video_decode_accelerator_tests_
target needs to be built and deployed to the device being tested. Running
the video decoder tests can be done by executing:

    ./video_decode_accelerator_tests [<video path>] [<video metadata path>]

e.g.: `./video_decode_accelerator_tests test-25fps.h264`

__Test videos:__ Test videos are present for multiple codecs in the
[_media/test/data_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/)
folder in Chromium's source tree (e.g.
[_test-25fps.vp8_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.vp8)).
If no video is specified _test-25fps.h264_ will be used.

__Video Metadata:__ These videos also have an accompanying metadata _.json_ file
that needs to be deployed alongside the test video. They can also be found in
the _media/test/data_ folder (e.g.
[_test-25fps.h264.json_](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/test/data/test-25fps.h264.json)).
If no metadata file is specified _\<video path\>.json_ will be used. The video
metadata file contains info about the video such as its codec profile,
dimensions, number of frames and a list of md5 frame checksums to validate
decoded frames. These frame checksums can be generated using ffmpeg, e.g.:
`ffmpeg -i test-25fps.h264 -f framemd5 test-25fps.h264.frames.md5`.

## Command line options
Multiple command line arguments can be given to the command:

     -v                  enable verbose mode, e.g. -v=2.
    --vmodule            enable verbose mode for the specified module,
                         e.g. --vmodule=*media/gpu*=2.
    --disable_validator  disable frame validation, useful on old
                         platforms that don't support import mode.
    --output_frames      write all decoded video frames to the
                         "video_frames" folder.
    --output_folder      overwrite the default output folder used when
                         "--output_frames" is specified.
    --use_vd             use the new VD-based video decoders, instead of
                         the default VDA-based video decoders.
    --gtest_help         display the gtest help and exit.
    --help               display this help and exit.

## Source code
See the video decoder tests [source code](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/media/gpu/video_decode_accelerator_tests.cc).
